---
title: "Preparation and rheology of titanium dioxide nanoparticles loaded κ‐carrageenan hydrogel beads strengthened by mixed salts for multipollutant water remediation"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2023-water-remediation
excerpt: 'Hydrogel beads are emerging as alternate adsorbent material for the batch or continuous column treatment of dye wastewater. Polysaccharide-based gel beads are preferred for their uniform shape and size, large specific surface area, and easy separation by filtration and subsequent reuse. In this work, we prepare and rheologically characterize UV-active κ-carrageenan/TiO2 beads for the adsorption and degradation of dyes. The 3–4 mm sized nanocomposite beads are formed by the extrusion of κ-carrageenan/TiO2 gel solution in salt solutions. The maximum increase in modulus was observed with the addition of 1% w/v TiO2 to κ-carrageenan and subsequent crosslinking with mixed salt of KCl and CaCl2. κ-carrageenan/TiO2 beads crosslinked by mixed salt of KCl and CaCl2 have higher adsorption capacity, as compared to beads crosslinked with single salt of KCl. The kinetic study indicated the chemisorption of Methylene Blue on the bead surface. κ-carrageenan/TiO2 beads showed higher degradation for Methylene Blue and Nile Blue A than Rhodamine B in 5 and 50 ppm each multicomponent dye systems under UV irradiation. The κ-carrageenan/TiO2 beads could form a porous column for the selective adsorption of positively charged dyes from a multicomponent dye system.'
date: 2023-26-01
venue: 'Journal of Vinyl and Additive Technology'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1002/vnl.21980'
citation: '2.	Patel, Panchami, Gangwar, Pratibha, Thareja, Prachi, "Preparation and rheology of Titanium dioxide nanoparticles loaded κ-carrageenan hydrogel beads strengthened by mixed salts for multipollutant water remediation", Journal of Vinyl and Additive Technology 2023, 29 (4), 773-794'
---

The contents above will be part of a list of publications, if the user clicks the link for the publication than the contents of section will be rendered as a full page, allowing you to provide more information about the paper for the reader. When publications are displayed as a single page, the contents of the above "citation" field will automatically be included below this section in a smaller font.
